what i'm getting from you is astrology
yes
flat earth maybe but evolution is a hard
no
you're not regarding human the human
diet the human
like the physical and mental makeup
human beings is the result of evolution
if evolution it was true
but you can see monkeys right
you can see different varieties of cats
and how if you take two stripy cats and
make them together you can get a
stripier cat
and you get a solid beige cat you know
like there
are things we can observe that lean
towards supporting
human evolution so i think one of the
more fundamental differences between
us um is not whether or not i would
sleep with hitomi
suzuki which i wouldn't that's
disgusting uh
but i see your whole movement and what
you're doing on your channel and in that
particular book on the ancestral diet
is being very backward looking
looking to an ideal about the past
whereas i would readily admit
my own diet and also my own political
philosophy and what i want to do with my
is forward-looking it's about the future
like i don't even think of veganism as a
diet for the 21st century
i think it's a diet for the 22nd century
you know uh we're figuring it out and
in a lot of ways i eat like a space man
i mean i eat protein powder i have
vitamin pills this is all stuff
frank is moderately or extremely opposed
to i mean i rely on pills to give me
vitamin d and vitamin b12
to completely admit my diet would be
deficient in a lot of things without
completely unnatural
scientific things but my ideology isn't
based on ideas about nature
or ancestral traditions from my
perspective i would have a very
weak argument if i'm living in japan and
saying to japanese people hey
you should all stop eating beef because
your ancestors didn't eat beef
and it seems to me you in europe would
also have a weak argument and saying hey
you should all go back to eating beef
because your ancestry people i just
don't see there being any kind of uh
significance to what our ancestors did
yeah go on i think there's a difference
between us
in terms of your optimism about the past
and tradition
and my optimism about the future
frank defano so i could open this
conversation by asking you who do you
think is more miserable today
vegan gains or spirits and i just point
out to you
relevant to the conversation we're
having just in the first few seconds
before we got rolling here
one of the differences is vegan gains
is currently a video game addict whereas
spiridge
is an ex-video game addict so i think
that's a point in favor of spirits no
i do yeah
i mean i mean being engaged is visibly
psychotic and
definitely heavily depressed yeah he
even acts like his videos
i think sturridge is delusional to the
point that
i don't think he's really depressed just
has a completely different mental state
they're both complete psychos i think
part of the appeal
of spirit on the internet is that
there's so much phoniness
on social media and he's authentically
sincerely crazy
you know what i mean like when he's
trying to convince you that the earth is
flat
or that the united states government is
controlled by like a cannibal
elite that's trying to eat your babies
from the hospital and stuff
he's really authentically living it you
know so i think there's a premium on
authenticity
in the 21st century yeah you know
there's some truth to everything but
just blanket turning stuff like the
earth is flat and really
like listen there might
so you think you think bill clinton does
a little bit of baby eating on the side
is that what you're saying here
no hillary clinton no i mean i mean
you'd honestly have to get the context
there's too much context to get you know
people watching you know
you know vegan gains who's a popular
vegan youtuber
that basically just talks crap about
other people and no one really likes him
uh disparaging the wrong meat eating
psycho that you know
picks up on all the conspiracy theories
and runs with them
uh but it's tough to say if
it's worth explaining you know the
background of feelings the secret
societies about everything's wrong
because then
when you go if people understand that
it's face value that there are
people that do control the world then
you know talking about the stuff they
actually do it's just more and more
convincing that these people were in
control
like you kind of have to start with the
base and be approachable and easy to
prove stuff
and then you know people the the flat
earth stuff
like to me i was like well even if the
earth is
but okay so that's just one other thing
on the top of the pot why do you care so
much after with this black
and on this one uh there was a channel i
came across i don't know how true it is
um the book both the north and south
paul expeditions were pretty much
all fake and the a few hundred years ago
the original maps of
the initial adventures to the north pole
they said it was some type of
like magnetic mountain that emitted very
very high levels of
certain magnetic fields so so there is
one other that would be
an example of the truth to the flat
earth stuff the point of acquiring stuff
is not that
the world is flat well there's more to
know about it if they don't want us to
know
what so look for me when i look at
someone like sphereage
i don't feel that uncomfortable because
both politically
and ethically i'm the diametric opposite
of them in every way
but do you ever feel when you're looking
at sphereage like hey this guy is my
competition
like like there's a little bit of a a
little bit of a coke versus pepsi thing
where no matter how superior you think
coke is to pepsi
you know what i mean like do you do that
does it get into your skin a little bit
i mean i would say no but i don't
do in this competition i don't think
that that right of the doctor that
pledged residents competition i don't
give any of these people's competition
that being said
there are certainly uh a woman with
people that do follow spirits that are
literally
they're just as crazy as him yeah when i
made that video talking about
all the stupid the crazy stuff you've
done whether it's
manipulating people for money doing just
really
evil you know there's no other work for
just evil cruel things
people say oh that's fine we're like oh
so and there was one crazy clip where he
drank his
he had his friend sent to a blood and he
drank it and
his viewers thought that was okay yep
they're pro-cannibalism
brainwashed people that will follow him
regardless of what he does or sets
and i think every viewer on youtube
might have acted for people but
especially they're willing to defend
very very
crazy psycho stuff i would say though
still if you think about a happy
marriage
sphereage with luna as opposed to vegan
gains with his life
i still see it being more miserable to
be locked in an apartment with vegan
gains
where one he's wasting time playing
video games all day
and then two he's wasting time
obsessively trying to bench press 250
pounds
all day like that is your life if you're
sharing an apartment with vegans
whereas you know with spirit you get
outdoors you know what i mean like i
think that i think overall that might be
a happier marriage no
if we're comparing the two that's kind
of funny i mean that doesn't show how
hard it will be
no i know i know well yeah but look the
other thing is vegan gains
he's now proud that's his new record is
that he can bench too big that's his
personal best
that he just achieved after 10 years his
body weight
is 250. i mean so you're only bench
pressing your own body weight
all of these vegans they're taking
steroids and they're following
diets if they weren't taking steroids
they would shrivel up like the rest of
them when a vegan takes steroids it
basically makes them
a little more muscular and stronger than
the average person um but like that guy
you might have got all the difference
between him and someone like being means
it's just the sheer amount
of uh different compounds they take um
probably thousands of thousands of drugs
per month
but yeah for sure being locked in an
apartment with someone that just
plays video games all day is depressed
like psychotic
has bipolar like yelling and screaming
and all that type of crap
i would imagine
i legit forget it a jasmine gains
also on only fans as fresh warm buns let
me just mention
i feel like i feel good for her i never
want to be
in that situation being fiscally
dependent on him and
the spirit of blue stuff they're both
crazy
right right well i mean we start this
discussion with you being willing to
recognize there's a great deal of
craziness
on the carnivore side of the equation i
mean i think there are
there are some people who come in and
try to insist that no vegan gains is
crazy and not
spirits but i mean you know you're
willing to admit there's a lot of
craziness to go around on both sides the
context of both
vegan and carnivore size is pretty
interesting we have the vegan agenda
that came along
with you know the new world order stuff
starving people making their brains rot
basically when people are being easier
to control they have lower brain
function
and the carnivore came along because
of i think the meat industry
noticed it or saw it and then they
decided to put some people on some
popular podcast i mean back in
2016 when i started my youtube channel
otherwise you've got subscribers i was
following what i called the keto paleo
diet
and you know my channel was kind of just
cruising for
a couple years until the cardboard i
really exploded in popularity because of
joe rogan podcast
and then my channel coincidentally
exploded in popularity but i wasn't kind
of a weird spot because
i guess you could say the same thing
about spirit because you know
both of us were following like an
animal-based
on your diamonds differences uh he he
came about it through
gianni's monoplanets which is the rock
primal diet which is a whole
cold thing and i came about it through
reading a couple different books some
more
research and that type of stuff and then
this carnivore movement comes along and
their goal is to sell
like low quality crappy conventional
animal products
you know they don't do like some raw
meat stuff it so
for those who don't know he mentioned a
name really briefly there arjunus
wander planets and he was a man who was
born
autistic and he claimed that he cured
his autism
by eating raw meat you can watch his
youtube videos
and you can decide for yourself just how
cured he was
or just how autistic he remained on his
raw meat diet for yourself
was very intelligent objectively and he
was right
but the problem is he never really
explained things from the scientific
perspective he kind of used
like sensationalism and crazy wild lies
and stories to get his point across
even if he understood the truth other
days
but that's the problem i had with those
people so yeah
adriana's firefighters wrote the book
the raw final guy
also the book we want to live and these
morons will literally tell me oh
uh you know you can cure mental
revertation with a raw diet like
like dude like right are you [ __ ]
like what's the deal
right they literally think you can cure
anything
or walk around to be fair on the vegan
side
one of the things that made me so many
enemies in veganism is that i was
opposing
parallel arguments that a vegan diet can
cure all kinds of traditions it can't
possibly hear one of the biggest
uh conflicts i had was about crohn's
disease so at that time
like the number two most famous youtuber
in the vegan
demi mod was a guy named durianrider now
completely forgotten
um yes he's fallen off the whole vegan
scene imploded
but he was making the claim that he had
crohn's disease and that he cured
crohn's disease by eating bananas this
is if you have even a very simple
understanding of what crohn's disease
is you know this is impossible not
improbable
but impossible when you look at the
details it turned out he never had
crohn's disease at all it's just it was
just [ __ ] about [ __ ]
but genuinely when i stepped into the
scene i was one of the very few people
who was
genuinely skeptical and saying hey guys
we're building a social movement that's
built on a lie
because we're claiming the vegan diet
cures all kinds of conditions that it
can't
possibly cure i think there's a lot of
things to be said with that where
yeah most people eat so much crap that
regardless of what diet they follow if
they remove some negative aspects
and improve the quality of their food
they're going to feel a lot better and
in some cases if they do get all of
those lifestyle and dietary factors
correct
they can cure seemingly lifelong health
issues
but usually the change isn't extreme
enough in the world to do that
and the average person especially the
vegan social media influencer
definitely doesn't have an understanding
to realize what's going on there
so i just say i find it a little strange
that you think
vegans in general wither away one
youtuber you're a big fan of is
hitomi mochizuki now let me ask you
we're talking
well we're talking about the future here
not the past
i think hitomi's career is at least five
years deep on youtube
if we were talking about the next five
years
would you rather be married to
and living in the same apartment with in
a high commitment relationship with
donald marriage here not dating
nothing would you rather be married to
hitomi mochizuki
or michaelia peterson
the daughter of jordan peterson who
endorses a 100
feet diet if this is this is the choice
i put before you
i i don't think you could i disagree i
don't think you could
like i started joking that she was my
girlfriend and stuff and after i made
one two videos on her
i i was like i was going to turn her
instagram or something to like i was
actually gonna dm her and ask her if she
wanted to do a collab video because i
think it would be fun and get a lot of
views
and she had already blocked me on
instagram before i even contacted her so
she knew about me
and now it's kind of like i'm just i'm
almost like making fun of her right away
by pretending that
she's not because these people like
these people in the club and together
they
just they absolutely despise me
because i mean i i obviously point out
the flaws in their guide what they're
doing how ridiculous they are um
one of the i haven't done a little while
but the recent cardboard goes vegan
video i did i took a
i took like a monologue for one of her
videos it was literally like 40 seconds
of nonsense
and i had to write it down because the
way
she strung the words together was so
like
incoherent that you have to put it down
on paper and read it and try to get an
idea of what she was saying to where she
could but that one sense but
no without a doubt it told me um
i totally get it but if that's the
choice you got to make are you really
saying you'd rather be with michaela
peterson
and have a life where you eat nothing
nothing but meat and vodka
if that's the choice i think you have to
admit to yourself that you're really
drawn to hitomi mochizuki and partly as
a psychological type
i think you like the spiritual caring
type
and not this vicious carnivore type i
think you got opposites attract homie
i think you're i think you're into a
toby i know i know the videos are a joke
but i don't think your attraction to her
is a joke i think that's you know
opposite the track
you're saying oh you have to live with
them
you have to share an apartment so you
know you're going to share a kitchen
you you just uploaded your first vegan
cookie recipe i think you want to tell
me would work better man
it's all received by the vegans by me
well no i mean look i think you've lived
your whole life in the united states
right i've never heard about you living
outside of the states
yeah i think you know my perspective on
someone like hitomi is a little bit
different from yours because
you know when i was living as a white
guy in thailand
a lot of the other white people really
were the hitomi
suzuki type i was uh surrounded by
uh good-looking spiritual
seekers and you know i mean
okay if you contrast it tell me what
suzuki to vegan gains
i think one of vegan gains most
fundamental problems is that he just
never reads a book
you know and this relates to frank just
did a video talking about
the end of his bodybuilding journey so
frank was talking about the fact that
spending two hours a day at the gym
really adds up and really cuts into the
other things your life
and i also agree with by the way frank
talked about the extent to which really
lifting heavy weights
it impacts your sleep cycle results in
taking naps in the middle of the day
you know impacts you in different ways
so yeah for me the the contrast is
someone like vegan gains the tragedy of
his life is he doesn't read anything
and that's in large part because he's
addicted to video games and to some
extent addicted to weightlifting the
number of always puts in there
someone like katomi her tragedy is you
know she does read books
but the more she reads like the more
deceived she is i mean she's reading
this really crazy cult stuff that gets
her deeper and deeper into a like
hinduism reinterpreted for white people
world view
mix of hindi stuff i haven't really
watched a lot of the videos
outside of just kind of making fun of
her days of eating but
yeah if you looked at what she was
saying the sheer amount of nonsense
you can
being a psycho or being an act it's kind
of like
50 50 and i don't know if i'd become
replacing a vet
has been told me it is i'm pretty sure
she's actually crazy
oh yeah she's living it i mean she's
living her truth there's no
i think both of them are i mean i think
i think you know this
the extent to which spheroge is a phony
i think is exactly the sort of thing you
covered in your recent video about him
it's exactly concealing anything that's
a threat to his ego
he lies about the stabbing incident when
he was in school he lies about
you know him breaking up and getting
back together with his wife he lies
about what happened with the girlfriend
before that he was never on camera
you know when he was paying his bills
that's that's a really interesting yeah
i mean
there's a difference between someone
using information to personally harm you
and there's a different then there's
something like you getting arrested for
doing this
like there's sure if someone's just
trying to use something to make fun of
you and make a false accusation like oh
you uh
um i don't know like you use steroids or
whatever like someone makes a false
accusation like that
that's something that obviously if it's
not true you should probably just
disregard it
but when you literally have articles
about you doing a school standing when
you literally have videos of you
drinking you in blood like
you kind of have to address those things
because a lot of
people see that stuff and if they have
it right they're like jesus christ i've
never watched that
nuts i'll never listen to anything yeah
the the school
the school stabbing was covered in
newspapers there's legal and historical
evidence just mentioned
he just addressed it i mean he was smart
he would have addressed it and said hey
i know i
i i mean then he can tell he can say
truthfully like i've changed 100
um that being said if he said like
there's no rational thinking whatsoever
to try to get himself to look better in
public life
and actually appeal to a reasonable
crowd but that's not his name
right but look i'm just suggesting i
think there's part of you that's really
drawn
to someone more like hitomi and the
other people you're you're peering
across the aisle at on the vegan side
just because they are fundamentally kind
of caring
sweet people and you know on the
carnivore side it's a shark tank it's
[ __ ] like jordan peterson and
michaela peterson and spirit
this is you know i'm sorry but you know
the the the pro meet doctors these are
these are obviously awful people in a
very different way
i wouldn't want to share an apartment
with any of them not even a platonic
basis
there's no more comfortable to learn
right so i mean
i would say that the whole vegan scene
on youtube died uh maybe two years ago
now and i think it was probably
inevitable that there was kind of a
lagging indicator where then the
carnivore movement started to collapse
after that because there was kind of
there was this wave of veganism i think
you're right to name
joe rogan on the carnivore side you know
the the joe rogan promoting and
discussing the carnivore diet
and jordan peterson right sure sure
that caused you but no but i would say
you know the parallel that you might not
know about is that the huge wave of
interest in veganism was kicked off by
oprah winfrey
oprah winfrey featured veganism heavily
and this is forget 2012 2013 something
like that
and then it caused this wave that
continued to about 2016.
so oprah winfrey you know in her time
she was bigger than
than joe rogan this caused this huge
wave of interest and there were
particular hit books and hit movies
and something i was saying again again
on the vegan side is look
that can't last like by definitely
batman can't be the number one movie
every year x-men
can't be like this is a temporary thing
we've got to figure out how to live a
meaningful life and have a meaningful
movement that's not relying on this
but i would say now maybe a year and a
half after
veganism started to die then we also
started to see that the wave of interest
and carnivorism
uh starting to die so you know just ask
you no you need to open it away like
what do you see for yourself
and say like the next five years as you
said as we mentioned
earlier the vegan movement both started
by special interest funded um
so i guess you could say bodies like
government corporations for various
reasons
you know vegan both of them want to make
money and sell
products whether it's plant-based
products or conventional meat products
both of them have normal agendas both
diets will damage your body in
one type of way over a period of time so
they're definitely not sustainable
long-term
the obvious vegan ones are two omega
fatty acids b vitamin deficiency
neurological issues
muscle wasting like an animal protein
the carnivore diet ends up leading to
liver issues iron liver sibo candida
dysbiosis
usually vitamin c deficiency i think you
mentioned that really briefly
um vitamin c is not the largest
i've heard you on your own videos
mention vitamin c as one
bit but the main factor is the diet is
so deficient in copper
that listen after after two three four
five years on a vegan diet
you eat some fish you feel like a
million bucks two three four years on
the cardboard diet your drinks pop
pressure so i laugh you're gonna feel
like [ __ ] for a year too
a vegan diet causes well a vegan diet
probably causes more damage long term
but it's a lot easier to fix a carnivore
diet
doesn't cause as much damage but the
damage takes a while to fix
so you might have some memory brain
issues cognition
muscle wasting from being vegan but that
damage to your liver on carbohydrate gut
issues
it could take two three four five years
to resolve or
in my experience with these vegan people
as soon as they start eating meat again
they like instantly feel better
the carnivore people especially the ones
i've consulted and people have tried to
help with their diet
listen i have people i started
consulting a year ago and they've been
getting better but they're still fixing
the toppers they can balance and
deliberations have you have you
personally
have you personally known anyone who got
scurvy i.e scurvy means
vitamin c deficiency when you have
deficient vitamin c at least
it's probably impossible to get actual
scurvy oh i've i've known someone who
got scurvy on me tied
but she was actually doing it she was
actually living it i mean that's the
thing is are people actually eating what
they say they eat not taking money
uh i would say on a crackhead diet she
got scurvy
just being all the way real with you the
thing is
meat has a lot of b vitamins and it's
it's very
low stress on the body it's not going to
stress the collagen
but that's b vitamins not c vitamins but
yeah yeah amino the meat only diet is
not going to be discouraging
what might happen is that someone made
but scurvy usually happens on
processed diets where there's no fresh
properties
so you think of uh vitamin c you think
of fresh uh
because and anti-scorpiotic means like
anti-ascorbic anti-vitamin c so the only
scenario where who doesn't have vitamin
c
is if it's a heavily processed like
right so
spirit endorses getting vitamin c from
raw
animal fat but i assume i thought you
were a cooked meat person
i mean you you endorsed meat you're not
going to
when you get me diet you're not gonna
get scared if you eat
like pentimens cookies and twinkies and
uh they'll be the mac and cheese for a
year you might get screwed that's
usually not
something i could have said at the
beginning of this video is like my
introduction
to frank defano my first discovery of
you and also a moment where i had to
reflect on just how crazy
a large percentage of my fellow vegans
are was your face off with paul beshear
which remains hilarious to me to this
day
not the event itself but the reaction of
vegans
who who behaved as if responded to this
as if
like oh like paul beshear just
pwned frank that like somehow he'd won
this debate this is a profound
philosophical debate
that paul beshear had won by calling you
ugly
and he i don't know if you saw this he
backed this up he had a written text
comment which to me was the same kind of
spiritual [ __ ] you hear from people
like tomi mochizuki
where he was like look man i want you to
know
that when i called him ugly i wasn't
talking about his physical appearance
i meant it in like this deeply spiritual
way
and there's this whole audience of
vegans who are like yeah
hard hit yeah that's how to win an
argument pitch a fit
go nuts on the sidewalk behave like a
little tyrant a little uh little
napoleon
and call someone ugly you know
what's going on in the world because
those are those vegan festivals that
have suffered
who knows if it'll ever happen again uh
but yeah
i think i mean i was making some silly
comments like the guy kept grabbing the
mic
like and then like i called him uh
i was like making a joke about his beard
and wearing sunglasses and just
that kind of stuff he got a little i
kind of got a little angry and stuff
and i was and i was kind of i wasn't
really i was kind of getting to the
point and kind of poking the hole and
then there are vegan logic
the gas lining from the vegans trying to
convince everyone else that he won the
yard
wasn't funny
i think uh i think you know the
situation for someone like paul bashir
so for those who don't know
paul beshear is the leader of a vegan
street activist movement that wears a
distinctive type of white
mask and stands holding a video uh video
monitor
so if many of you if you don't know the
name paul bashir you'll be vaguely
familiar
that's correct yeah yeah yeah um you
know i'd see paul beshear's situation as
actually being fundamentally the same as
spirit
which is that there is no way to win
politically when you are discrediting
your own character to this extent
like it doesn't matter how right you
think you are or how right your coven of
followers thinks you are
when you've totally described you've
just demonstrated yourself to be kind of
a terrible human being
and if you don't know paul beshear now
has a major financial scandal on his
hands
which revealed the extent oh no he was
receiving millions
of dollars millions and this is
i'm one of the few vegan youtube
channels that really scrutinizes what
vegan foundations do
with their money like you know part of
the question is
okay so if you've been getting millions
of dollars how expensive are those masks
how expensive is it to have 20 people
stand around the sidewalk and kind of do
nothing
you know no they don't know and that
that was part of the scandal
was getting into how much money he was
paying to himself and his girlfriend
and how little money was being given to
the branches and local people
there were a very small number of people
at the top making salaries
and then how much money was being spent
on flights around the world well look
sorry you know to focus in on poll for a
second but i think what i'm about to say
about paul who gave him all this money
it was donated through
yes it was donated and the reason why
this scandal happened was that one of
the big donors someone who was giving
about a million dollars a year
roughly you can get the specific numbers
from my channel but yeah there was one
big donor who put the brakes on and said
whoa
i need to have an accountant look at
where the money's going i don't trust
this i have questions
and then paul got aggravated and antics
ensued
you know it went it went downhill from
there because you know how paul's
attitude is he doesn't like
it's very embarrassing
to everything already it's hippie
attitudes man
these are not business people these are
not these are not political people i
mean they think about this stuff in a
very spiritual
you know very spiritual way but look you
know so this is why i'm putting this to
you
again i don't know how much you know
this side of it but you know
paul beshear just like joey carbstrong
so i assume you at least know the name
joey carter
paul beshear just like joey carbstrong
began his career
in chiang mai thailand as a durian
writer and free league clones
uh no maybe you can put your hand in
front of camera for a second get it to
wake up and focus on you
you're still out of focus amazingly but
look i don't mind we can just keep going
so these guys these types of guys uh
specifically paul beshear and also joey
carvestrong
they began their careers fame whoring
in the apartments of our times you know
trying to get social media clout
in chiang mai thailand riding on the
coattails of
uh durianrider and freely you know they
were there in thailand at that event
and the beginning of paul bashir's
movement his organization
um i'm sorry anonymous for the voiceless
was on the streets of chiang mai town it
was white
tourists doing this and then uploading
it to youtube and then asking for
donations
so there's this very kind of powerful
cycle
of donation seeking fame chasing
you know uh youtube collaborations like
you can pretend that these organizations
exist
only for their real world political
function like what they do on the street
but the reality is the economy of what
they're the economics of what they're
doing is completely linked to youtube
social media fundraising
it's watch the video click now far more
people see the youtube video
than see you standing there on the
sidewalk and this all this all began
with people wanting to imitate
freelance on i mean you can tell me but
like when you look at your own
i know you you partly are in the
category of like a fitness
weight loss diet and exercise youtuber
but as you're now leaving the carnivore
diet like what do you see as the arc
i know i mean does it are people trying
to be the next jordan peterson
i mean is that is that the competition
and the confidence is what people are
trying to deal with community
yeah i mean what's what's going to
happen next on your side of the aisle
whether you think of that as carnivore
or were you thinking that as fitness or
whatever
well i would do i mean i gotta i'm
focusing on
another book on i haven't really
done too much work on it yet because i'm
not like all these other people uh
that you know a lot of these are the
carnivore special interest funded chills
they've been cardboard for six months
they write a book just to make get book
sales and have connections and that type
of nonsense
uh i'm probably gonna let the guy go for
i've been following this diet now
since uh about two or three months
i'm gonna give it at least probably
another year year and a half two years
uh before i i mean i'm gonna work on the
book because i kind of i mean listen
i have all the information down the diet
hasn't really changed that much
i could probably release the book in a
month or two if i really wanted to but
i i think from an integrity perspective
and
and look even if i have most of the
information
there's probably not five or ten percent
that'll just come along along the way
so sometime like next year early 2022
i should have uh a new book ready to go
though
that'll be the kind of new diet
philosophy that i think that a lot of
people are looking i think
an issue that most people do have a need
to correct in their diet but
i mean compared to the first book
identity in special images
a lot of the a lot of the principles are
still there and i even mentioned
i even mentioned in in that book but
it's something that's
usually overlooked and not focused on
enough so um
this turned out that's basically you
know a lot of lean meat
grain-based high-quality organic mineral
inflammation seeing what food your body
digests efficiently
uh focuses on some very very specific
components of food
and then that's going to be my next step
so
i'm not continuing the health education
stuff i need to do
video still pepper in some fitness
videos here and there some
dietary critiques and and just and just
trying to improve people's health
but that next big step in the dietary
context i think
if when i do come out with that book
it's gonna it's gonna do really well and
it's gonna bring a concept that
a lot of people haven't really
considered to a larger scale and yeah
there are dads with every idea there are
other people that talk about it and
thought of it they just
haven't really presented it in the
proper way or not all the aspects of it
so i think
one of the more fundamental differences
between us um
is not whether or not i would sleep with
hitomi
suzuki which i wouldn't that's
disgusting uh
but i see your whole movement and what
you're doing on your channel and in that
particular book on the ancestral diet
as being very backward looking
looking to an ideal about the past
whereas i would readily admit my own
diet
and also my own political philosophy and
what i want to do with my is
forward-looking it's about the future
like i don't even think of veganism as a
diet for the 21st century
i think it's a diet for the 22nd century
you know we're figuring it out and in a
lot of ways i eat like a space man
i mean i eat protein powder i have
vitamin pills this is all stuff
frank is moderately or extremely opposed
to i mean i rely on pills to give me
vitamin d and vitamin b12
completely admit my diet would be
deficient in a lot of things without
completely unnatural
scientific things but my ideology isn't
based on ideas about nature
or ancestral traditions so just i just
put this to you
if you were japanese you would come from
a culture
where traditionally nobody ate cows
there were no cows
in japan prior to basically trade with
americans
the first cow ever slaughtered in japan
was actually to feed a
diplomatic representative from the
american embassy the idea that your
ancestral diet
that's right well now they play baseball
too they didn't play baseball before
they trade with the americans
that's a lot of american culture has
become obsessed over in japan has become
more popular than traditional japanese
culture
but i mean from my perspective i would
have a very
weak argument if i'm living in japan and
saying to japanese people hey
you should all stop eating beef because
your ancestors didn't eat beef
and it seems to me you in europe would
also have a weak argument and saying hey
you should all go back to eating beef
because your ancestry people i just
don't see there being any kind of
uh significance to what our ancestors
did yeah
the correlation there is the presence of
animal foods in all indigenous groups
all right um one and one i mean some
coastal indians
i used to stay around the florida
peninsula were
eating shellfish mostly sure basically
all dies of shellfish crab moles
crustaceans that a lot of vegans
consider to be okay
of what are they called bit experience i
don't know
it's where they only eat shellfish and
then so you do have a directional
contrast between
those groups of the needs and then you
could have complained to indians that
are traveling on icing every single day
so so the consistency across whether
it's some alaskans eating
fish and caribou and steel
versus some italians fishing for some
bronzino and having people with their
wheat
is there is a presence around all
indigenous diets regardless of their
location and then
what determines kind of their physical
development their height the other
aspect
is the percentage of plants in the diet
right japanese
it seems to me you're open-minded about
the flat earth versus
spherical earth thing but i take it you
do regard human beings as products of
evolution i mean
long historical yeah
there's too many lies and everything
kind of
that they they tell us to deceive us
from certain things
uh the evolution i definitely don't
believe okay so you do you regard human
beings as created by a divine
creator god or what's your what's your
position on the origin of
origin and design of human
there's not i mean life i pretended like
what was going on
um i would probably i mean the people
that really know
the truth the facts are uh the
high-level secret society members the
global elite
they know whatever the truth the true
history of what's happened in the past
thousand thousand years
and a lot of these secrets that
these people keep were actually known by
some of those indigenous tribes as well
native americans of aborigines just
natural things they observed on a lot of
what
what i've learned recently is a lot of
truth comes from astrology
and although most people view
those astrology girls as absolutely
[ __ ] crazy um
yeah yeah the thing that has convinced
me about astrology is
looking into the actual history of the
past few thousand years however
what i'm getting from you is astrology
yes
flat earth maybe but evolution is a hard
no
you're not regarding human the human
diet the human
like the physical and mental makeup
human beings is the result of evolution
that's your position
yeah as if i've walked outside of my
house i can see stars in the sky
and if i look straight across you know
i'm not
i can't see i can't fly up and see the
shape of the air so i don't know
whether the earth is fine or not i don't
know what i can certainly say is
there there's not enough proof to know
what the earth is what type of
plane you're living on there's no proof
what really gets me
curious is how many planes mysteriously
disappear probably
when the pilot gets curious when they
shoot it um
i'm sure that the the flights and the
commercial airlines are having to be
heavily regulated where
the program as soon as that person goes
on track about their destiny
that plan goes missing 100
but you can see monkeys right you can
see
different varieties of cats and how if
you take two
stripy cats and make them together you
can get a stripier cat
and you get a solid beige cat you know
like there are things we can observe
that lean towards supporting
human evolution right that human beings
like all other biological enemies
so that that's what i'm asking is are
you are you on board with evolution as a
broad
concept or no well it depends on
my evolution that that's what i mean
anything like a cat can eventually turn
into a human if it did certain things
now i think
i think if you get for instance if you
gave a human
you know if you had a human eat two
pounds of steak every day and milk
you know if you had if you took an
italian family and had them only eat
bean and milk like the danish for like
five generations they're going to be
taller and bigger and larger
for sure because their skeletons don't
change but
regardless of what you beat someone in
the environment you change them in
you're never going to evolve them into a
different species a different being
you might be able to change certain
factors about that species as you said
the color of the skin the stripes the
size of the animal
what foods they're efficient that eating
if it's a gradual change
but if it's if it's an extreme change
then the species just goes extinct and
bonds
okay so you think 50 million years ago
human beings were the same as they are
now getting into
millions of years ago
well i do
just tell you i mean you know some of us
live with you know
the basement of the smithsonian who
knows what kind of [ __ ] oh my parents do
you may not know my parents are in the
museum planning against my whole life so
i just say i grew up in an elite museum
family actually they know exactly what's
in the basement of the smithsonian
and every leading you see around the
world including the louvre in paris
funny you should mention that but yeah i
grew up in a museological family
i'd like to see what's buried under
those museums
okay dude i'll tell you i'll tell you
right now okay if you go to a museum
that has a collection of ming vaz's
so these are vases from chinese history
the most beautiful or most distinctive
ones
are shown to visitors the museum and
then in the basement they have
20 or 30 other similar vases
that aren't quite as interesting or
beautiful to look at that's what you
find in the basement
so if they got a couple of you know
tyrannosaurus rex
fossils it's the prettiest or most
distinctive ones that are on display and
then you go out of the basement and they
got a bunch of ugly
crumbled broken up ones that is what you
find in museums is stuff that's not
uh not viable exhibit material that's
most of what you get down there
but no museum warehouses are not
particularly fascinating places
and they don't really have the budget to
keep a lot of great secrets so yeah you
might be you might be sorely
disappointed if you went to the basement
of the of the smithsonian
certainly it's funny to me though you're
you're really saying
that you regard human life as not not
produced by evolution at all
and and all animal life like in general
tigers and lions they didn't they didn't
evolve from
i i mean as with a lot of things people
talk about
there's no visible in front of the eye
group
and the thing that really opened me up
to this is at the peak of
you know what you know the pandemic uh
when they'll be monsters are supposed to
be full
i went to the hospital see what was
going on
so now you know that that led me to kind
of never really believe in what someone
tells me
okay yeah if someone tells me something
and i'll see with my own two eyes if
there's not an incredible amount of
proof
or happening then i do not believe it
because
the lies and deception that have been
basically perpetuated onto everyone
their entire lives is absolutely the
same
right well you know we do have a
skeletal record
which is not all fossils including just
bones and we have the fact that
whales have hip bones with leg
sockets in them still to this day they
can never use that swimming just in the
skeleton
of great whales as they still exist in
the state there's evidence
that in the past they walked on land so
right now if you kill a whale and take
it apart yourself or if you go to a
museum and see a whale skeleton there's
evidence
in innate within the skeleton of the
whale and then we can show you it's very
often in the basement of a museum
but you can show you in a textbook also
that we have fossils and skeletal
remains from other stages
tracing back to the fact that whales
used to be something quite different
from a whale
that whales actually did have a relation
to land mammals and that's why they're
they're mammals that's why they don't
have gills so you can you can see it to
this i mean if you take interest in it
you can
you
[Music]
i think the government
i see what humans do now is very basic
things and when someone's going to try
to convince me that
they're they have all this you can say
that and that's
the problem with that is that's the
images and the proof they've given
like even if you took a little artist
it'll give you similarities
in the bone structure of correct humans
right they still have fingers within
their flipper they have bones for what
used to be fingers
they have hip bones so it used to be
legs i mean this goes back to the
context of
what happened like obviously if you were
there watching
over if evolution it was true the only
way you can prove it
is if you have some type of top capsule
and you can watch it over millions and
millions and millions of years
right now
right okay but you know i'd say to you
this look i i believe in skepticism in
the true philosophy
okay right but this is what i've said
you is
sometimes the opposite of a theory
fails the same test for skepticism so if
one theory is
over time life on earth adapted and
changed
in response to conditions but then the
opposite theory
is no life on earth stayed the same
for millions of years that whales never
changed that if you go back 5 million
years 10 million years 50 million years
100 million years
that whales remained exactly the same
skepticism doesn't favor that theory
that's actually a much harder theory to
prove and it can be disproven
so the idea that human beings were
always the same or whales was them
that actually is the one that's
impossible whereas the the assumption
is more skeptical to say oh you know
what in the same way that we can take
two cats now
and have them have kittens and we see
some changes and we can take two
different cats
that we can breed cats and produce
different changes in the color of their
fur
in the same way over millions of years
you're going to get structural
adaptations and that's consistent with a
lot of evidence so to say skepticism you
have to look at counterposed hypotheses
not just look at one hypothesis and
reject it just because it's a hypothesis
so a first line has a lifespan of what a
day
some of that yeah let's let's say it's a
day so
if you took a fruit fly a lifespan of
the day
it would take you about
eight years to replicate one million
years of evolution
was the last time i can fly so why why
would you not do something like that
oh if evolution was possible they do
they do
they do they do
these are believe me as a vegan i've
read about many horrifying experiments
when thing where things like this are
done to animals and much worse no no
these types of experiments are done
with uh small fast reproducing organisms
precisely to
affirm different theories about
evolution so if you start reading about
it you'll find those are exactly the
types of of experiments people do
using uh animals with a short life spam
fast reproductive cycle
to show the changes that happen within a
hundred generations that's exactly
the biological design there's probably a
reason that no one
really talks about that or is brought up
in the context because then that gets
people thinking and they want to find
some stuff that doesn't do this frank
if you start hanging out with a
different crowd in downtown new york
you're going to find there actually a
lot of people who are into this
i'm sure new york university there are
university departments dedicated to this
stuff and there were lectures and there
are museums
you're actually finding where a lot of
people are fascinated by this it's not
as popular as video games but sure
a lot of people are into it yeah so look
i was asking you yeah i mean honestly i
mean
i mean not to say this whole
conversation is pointless but
what i said earlier was you know i'm
you're looking at charts and graphs
and information that was established by
hundreds and thousands of other people
geologists whatever
if i was in a position where i if i was
if i went to school for geology for
astrology if i understood the context of
every single aspect of what was going on
here
and i can make an educated decision
based on that but
i'll tell you right now i'm not taking
what someone tells me at face value
unless i can understand
that's why with diet and nutrition and
health and lifestyle
i understand it's the point where i'm
comfortable conveying to other people
uh and if sometimes a thing comes up as
far as making sense and starts putting
pieces together
like like the actual world map from
three four hundred years ago that was
documented by certain explorers
whether there's truth to certain things
or not
the problem with this this evolution
based value stuff is
at least the information that i've had
access to at face value to me is
inadequate for me to really
say anything okay so look i understand
that's that's a type of
skepticism so the question is going to
put you i didn't know we get into a big
discussion about evolution is this
you know i'm reflecting on the
significance of tradition and
traditional diet for you and you again
you have a book where that's really
stated in the title that's your approach
is
kind of aboriginal indigenous and
ancient traditions that relates to diet
you know if you imagine a parallel
universe
or a science fiction universe where
instead of
human beings evolving from apes
which again controversial but setting
that aside treating it as a foregone
inclusion
where instead we had a bunch of
intelligent pythons you know the python
eats
100 meat diet they're a predator goes
around
eat something and then they hibernate
they sit in a tree and digest the whole
thing swallow animals whole
set there and let's just say
hypothetically in this other universe
over millions of years
the pythons get smarter and smarter and
smarter
and they're completely accustomed to 100
meat
raw meat carnivore diet but at some
point they're intelligent enough
that they stop and say you know what
this is barbaric
we have to adapt we have to change
culturally
technologically we have to invent a
better way of living
you know can't you see veganism in that
sense
not as a traditional or ancestral diet
but as a diet that could make sense
something we could do
for the 22nd century i mean you can go
down a list of
every single component down to town down
to the molecule and planting for samples
and easily explain how it's
damaging the person's body right but you
could you could make all that stuff in a
lab right and so could
if it the pythons and it's not possible
right now they can't do it right if they
could do it if they could do it
they're certainly not doing it in the
masses if they were i mean
i mean i'm assuming they have the
technology and capacity
to understand every single molecule or a
piece of you know wild gaming right
a piece of something but if they
if they didn't understand that then they
realize that it's not hospitals
so you don't you don't think in the
future at some point
technology will be advanced enough that
people could have the equivalent of
wild boar meat all those nutrients
i'm suggesting to you that this could be
a technology that's as yet unknown
but that in the future wouldn't it be
possible
for all of your complaints about the
vegan diet to be rendered obsolete
through human ingenuity through hard
there were there would be work type of
machine that was so complex that i could
literally replicate
the exact molecule in the same way that
i'm able now
to get vitamin d and vitamin b12
from a pill that in the future molecule
by molecule whatever it is you think is
most desirable
about a meat diet that that could could
become well
divided in the vitamin d supplement
example i mean
there's there's different properties
when you orderly consume vitamin d3
supplement versus what happens about a
body
when you expose your skin to the sun
itself even that is
even that i i get it but i mean you know
i think i think this is the difference
between us as they say it's not just
whether or not i would turn down
hitomi suzuki which i totally would i
think there's a difference between us
in terms of your optimism about the past
and tradition
and my optimism about the future i think
that's a very fundamental
lab swap difference vegetable seed oils
and pea protein so
i don't i don't again if they did have
the technology of the machines in the
capacity to do
to make a literal aggressive beach take
i would be
i mean you you break it down to the
molecular structure of that atomic
structure i don't even know if it would
be possible
okay what type of raw material input
would you have
frank it's been possible it's been great
talking to you we're at the one hour
mark
i would be happy to interview you again
in the future i mean i don't know what's
gonna happen i don't know if you're
gonna go back to uh
you know confronting uh you know the
vegan uh protesters on the street
what i mean i i just say i see you as a
creative person
and i see carnivore diet advice as a
creative dead end
so i don't believe you're going to be
doing the same thing one year from now
or even six months from now that you
were doing in the past i think you're
going to take on new directions
right i know the um 20-year couple there
they i
i made the video exposing them for the
fake
real estate stuff in the background
they're much alive i know
how long they've been on the night the
vegan some vegans might be eating fish
here in there but at least they mostly
here but look
i'm vegan but i don't do any promotion
of the diet on my channel i don't do a
diet
i regard diet as a dead end and i think
that if you're really a creative person
and something i've also heard you talk
about the channel
you do care about ethics you do care
about politics in a in a strange sense
you care about science also as you just
you know you're engaged with a lot of
these
questions i think whatever direction
you're going to take on your channel i
don't think it's going to be repeating
what you've done in the last two years i
think you're going to do something new
and i welcome it i welcome the change
i'm looking forward to seeing what
happens next
with frank defano thanks to conversation
and i'm happy to talk to you again
when you're available